java c
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 
TRC4800/MEC4456 Robotics 
PC 5: Velocity, Jacobian and   Statics
Objective: To apply vector propagation to solve direct velocity problems, and   to understand   the   functions   of   the   Jacobian   in   robotic   manipulators. Problem 1. Derive the point velocity and angular velocity, represented in F0 (frame. 0)   of   the   end-effector   of   the   three-link   manipulator   shown   in   Figure   1 by   using   the time derivative of the point position. Figure 1: A 3R Planar Arm 
Problem 2. Derive the point velocity and angular velocity, represented in   F4 (frame. 4) of   the end-effector   of   the   three-link   manipulator   shown   in   Figure   2 using   the velocity propagation method. Assume   the   length   of   the   last   link   is   L3. Note   F4 is   located   at   the   tip   of   the   end-effector, with the same orientation   as   F3   .

Figure 2: A 3R non-planar arm
Problem 3. Derive the Jacobian for the manipulators mapping the   joint velocity inputs to the point velocity of   the end-effector tips for both the 3 link   manipulators   from Figure   1   and   2.
Represent the Jacobian in
a.         F0    attached to the   base.
b.       F3    attached to   the   3rd    link.
The   angular   velocity   ofthe   end-effector   is   not   required.
Problem 4. What happens to the rank of   a square Jacobian matrix under singularity configuration? Under that assumption, would singularities in the force domain   exist   at   the same configuration as singularities in the position domain. Explain the physical meaning   of   a   singularity in the force domain.
Problem 5. A simplified model of   a personnel lifter mechanism is   shown in   Figure   3   that   has   a working platform. as the end-effector, which for safety purposes is always   oriented   in   the direction of   ̂(z)0   . Joints   1, 2 and 4 are revolute with the first   two   coincident   and   the   third   joint prismatic, offset from   joint 2 by distance L with variable extension d. You   can   assume   a   load      in any direction on the platform. translates to a   point force   in the   same   direction   coincident   at the fourth   joint. Hence find equations for the torques, τ1   ,   τ2      and prismatic   joint   force   F3      such      that   the   mechanism   can   support   any   force      0F = [fx    fy    fz   ]T   , applied   to the platform. What are the singularities of   this system and what does   it physically mean? 
Assume the robot is at home position in Figure 3, therefore an   offset   is needed   in row   2   of   the   DH table.
Note: If   you   are   using   the   velocity   propagat代 写TRC4800/MEC4456 Robotics PC 5: Velocity, Jacobian and StaticsSPSS
代做程序编程语言ion   method, you   may   need   to   use   the   following equations   for   a   prismatic   joint:

Figure 3: Schematic of a 4-Dof RRPR mechanism
Problem 6. For the robot shown   in Figure   4.
a.          Using the propagation method, find the velocity (linear and angular)   of   the   end-   effector in the tool frame, i.e.   find      4v4          4w4   .
b.         Using the results you obtained in (a), find the velocity (linear   and   angular)   of   the   end-   effector in the base frame. in its simplest   form,i.e. find      0v4           0w4   .
c.          Find   the   Jacobian   of   the   end-effector   in   the   tool   frame,i.e.   J4      (includeonly   linear   velocity   terms).
d.         Find   the   Jacobian   of   the   end-effector   in   the   base   frame,i.e.   J0    (includeonly   linear velocity   terms).
e.         Find the   joint torques required to maintain a static force vector      0F    =    [fx       fy    0]T, represent the result as a matrix   equation.

Figure 4: Planar Robot 
The transformation matrices between the base and tool frame. for the robot in Figure 4   are   as   follows:

Note: You   answers   should   reflect   use   of   these   transformation   matrices, or   otherwise   correct 4(0)T   generated by the matrices above. Do not reassign frames and use a different   set   of   matrices.
Problem 7. For the robot shown   in Figure   5.
a.          Using the time differentiation method, find the velocity (linear and   angular)   of   the   end-effector   in   the   base   frame,i.e. find      0v5          0w5   .
b.         Using the results you obtained in (a), find the velocity (linear   and   angular)   of   the   end-   effector in the tool frame. in its simplest   form,i.e.   find      5v5           5w5   .
c.          Find   the   Jacobian   of   the   end-effector   in   the   base   frame,i.e.   J0      (include   both   terms   for linear   and   angular   velocity).
d.         Find   the   Jacobian   of   the   end-effector   in   the   tool   frame,i.e.   J5      (include   both   terms   for linear   and   angular   velocity).
e.         Find   the   singularities   (if   any) of   the   robot, giving   a   physical   interpretation   of   them.
f.          Find   the   symbolic   equation   which   represents   the   workspace   boundary   of   the   robot.

Figure 5: Orthopaedic Robot 
The transformation matrices between the base and tool frame. for the robot in Figure   5   are   as   follows:

Where c12−4    =   cos(θ1    +   θ2      −   θ4) and s12−4      =   sin(θ1      +   θ2      −   θ4)







         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
